Our next technique is the crossed seam. So this is when two seams come together
and cross over each other. Generally we find these in waistlines, at the side
seam, we might find this in a crotch where the front and back of each of our
two legs come together. In a pair of pants we might find it at the shoulder
area where the shoulder seam and sleeves come together or in the underarm. So
finished it looks like this and you can see we kind of have four pieces of
fabric stitched together and the cross seam is where those four join and you
want to make sure that they're lined up pretty perfectly. So to do this you're
going to start with two plain seams. So I sewed two samples exactly the same as
our plain seam. So I have one plain seam here, I sewed them right sides together, I
backstitched at the beginning and the end, and I pressed my seam open. So I have
two of them here and I need to join that cross section. So I need to attach this
seam and this seam together. To do that I'm going to put them right sides
together and before I pin all the way across I'm going to focus on where these
seams join together first. So right here where the seams join together I'm going
to actually use a straight pin to help guide me. I'm going to put the pin into
the seam allowance on the right side or on this back side on top and you can see
that the pin is coming out here and I'm going to maneuver it so it goes directly
into the seam on the under piece of fabric as well. So now you can see that
that pin is coming out on the back side and it's coming out right through the
center of that seam. And then to secure that in place I'm going to push the seam
back down or the pin back down into the seam on the back and I want to come up
right through the center of the seam on the front. So my pin is now holding that
cross seam in place. I can line up the rest of the seam allowance and I can pin
that and we're going to sew right along here at 5/8 of an inch joining those two
pieces of fabric together.
Now when you get to where the seam allowances are you want to make sure
that they're laying flat. You want to make sure that it doesn't fold over
while you're sewing it. So I always like to stop a little bit before I'll put the
needle in I'll make sure on the underside the seam is flat as well as on
top and then you're going to sew up to but not over the pin. So I stopped right
before I got to the metal and I pulled that pin out. I'm going to back stitch at the end
and now I can press this seam open and we can see if my seam allowances match
up and they look pretty good. Sorry it's difficult to see on this fabric but they
look pretty good. So ultimately it will look like this. On the wrong side you
will see the seams all pressed open so you'll want to V off your seam
allowances. You can see that they've been V'd off underneath that third seam that
we sewed and that helps reduce the bulk in here so it takes some of the layers
of fabric away because this is one, two, three, four, four pieces of fabric and
depending on the thickness of the material that you're using that can rub
against your body and be you know not that pleasant to wear. So we like to
reduce the bulk by V'ing off. So I'll go to my iron and I'll press my technique all
flat and that will be the finished cross seam.